---
date: '2023-01-02'
title: 'TIL 230102'
categories: ['TIL', 'TypeScript', 'useRef']
summary: 'TypeScript & useRef'
thumbnail: './TIL230102.png'
---

## TS

### What is TS?

in JS…

```jsx
const shape = { width: 14, height: 12 }
shape.heigth // undefind not an error!
```

TS is built on the top of JS

→ TS is JS with types

### What is Types?

**static checking**

TS detects errors in our code without running it. This is called static checking.

static checking? → detects errors before runtime!

Type System is used to perform TS static checking.

### Why Types?

TS’s Type System will…

- Helps us find errors
- Analyzes our code as we type
- Only exists in development

### How can i install TS?

`$ yarn global add typescript`

### TypeScript Playground

browser base environment

You can start write TS without install anything

[TS Playground - An online editor for exploring TypeScript and JavaScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/play)

### Variable Types ( Type Annotation )

Assigning a basic type to a variable

just add :Type after the variable name

```tsx
const myVariable: string = 'So Awesome!'
```

In Type Annotation, type must be lower case.

### Type Inference

Type Inference refers to the TS compiler’s ability to infer types from certain values in code.

TS can remember a value’s type even if you didn’t provide a type annotation, and it will enforce that type moving forward.

### When we need Type Annotation?

```tsx
const movies = ['Arrival', 'The Thing', 'Aliens', 'Amadeus']

// let foundMovie; // Type Inference any! So we need Type Annotation to string
let foundMovie: string

for (let movie of movies) {
  if (movie === 'Amadeus') {
    foundMovie = 'Amadeus'
  }
}
```

### Function Parameter Types

In TS, we can specify the type of function parameters in a function definition.

This allows TS to enforce the types for the values being passed into your function.

Typing parameters is just like typing variables.

```tsx
function square(num: number) {
  return num * num
}
```

### Function Return Types

We can specify the type returned by a function.

Even though TS can often infer this, Mostly developers prefer the explicit annotations.

Add the type annotation after the function parameter list.

```tsx
const add = (x: number, y: number): number => {
  return x + y
}
```

### Anonymous Function Types

When we’re working with anonymous functions, TS can determine the type of the parameter of the context being called.

### Void

Void is a return type for functions that don’t return anything.

TS can infer this type fairly well, but sometimes it may want we to annotate a function with a void return explicitly.

### Never

The never type represents values that NEVER occur. We might use it to annotate a function that always throws an exception, or a function that never finishes executing.

## 선발대 강의

### useRef의 활용

useRef를 전역변수로 사용할 수 있다.

왜? state나 props가 변경되면 리렌더링 되는데, ref는 바뀌어도 리렌더가 되지 않는다

```tsx
const isMount = useRef(false)

useEffect(() => {
  if (isMount.current === false) {
    isMoutn.current = true
    return
  }
}, [deps])
```
